---
tags:
  - Tech
aliases:
  - Android Open Source Project
---
The **Android Open Source Project** (AOSP) is the repository of source code that is responsible for the core of the [[Android Inc.]] operating system. Using code from AOSP, anyone can download and create their own operating system based on Android.

> [!tldr] TL;DR
> AOSP is the open source part of Android. 

> [!links]- 
> - [TechTarget](https://www.techtarget.com/searchmobilecomputing/definition/Android-Open-Source-Project-AOSP)
## What's included in AOSP ?
The AOSP code contains the things needed to make a basic OS. It includes: 
- the [[kernel]]
- the hardware abstraction layer
- the Android runtime
- some core apps

# AOSP = plain Android ?
Not exactly. Since AOSP doesn't provide everything needed to compile a complete OS, it isn't stock or plain Android. 

Google would also say that the non-open source Google apps are needed to complete the Android experience. 

> [!cite] To help illustrate the AOSP, it is like the plans to make a car engine and its controls. The manufacturer will need to add the wheels, body, interior and styling. 

## What may not be included ?
Not everything is included in AOSP open source code to make a proper OS. A device manufacturer will either need to: 
- **license** proprietary features not included in AOSP, such as [[GMS|Google Mobile Services]] or 
- **develop** its own proprietary features.

The majority of Android-based smartphones have licensed Google apps that come preinstalled (Samsung, OnePlus).

Some device manufacturers will only use the open-source components of AOSP and not the Google proprietary fonctions.

> [!comment] Amazon Fire OS is based on AOSP, but does not rely on Google Play and uses Amazon appstore instead.

> [!comment] Huawei countered US sanctions by developing HarmonyOS, a custom ROM based on AOSP open source code, but *not* relying Google Mobile Services.

# AOSP ROM performance 
Android-based systems that stick close to AOSP without making many changes or replacing the launcher are often easier to run and more consistent though.





